# Knowing your Team Members and Setting their Roles

The content of this article falls under the "teaming domain" in Project Sprint.

The "ideal state" of teaming is when team members have the same expectations of each other's roles (called roles). In other words, when a team member thinks, "He will do this," that team member also thinks, "This is what I should do.” The "ideal state" of teaming does not have a definite form. The reason is that it is difficult to determine "If we achieve this level, we are an ideal team!” is difficult to determine. Therefore, in Project Sprint, we always aim for "a better team state than the current one.”

## Basic information of team members

The prerequisite for a better team is to understand the team members. For example, make sure you know the following about the team members involved in the project

* What is the name of the team member? What kind of organization or company do they usually belong to?
* What kind of person is each member? What skill sets do they have, for example? What types of work have they been involved in?
* What is the expected contribution of each member to the project?
* Is each member a full-time or part-time member of the project? In any case, how much time can each member devote to the project?

Knowing these things at the beginning of the project will help you in setting up the roles that will follow.

## Sharing Roles

In the Project Sprint, the roles of individual team members are called roles. Roles and team members do not necessarily have to have a one-to-one relationship. Roles and team members do not necessarily have to have a one-to-one relationship, i.e., one person can play multiple roles, or a role can be played by multiple people.

There is no limit to the number of roles to be defined, and there is no "must define" role. Depending on the nature of the project, discuss the necessary division of roles among team members and clearly define them as roles.

**Tips related to this page**

* [Setting up roles that are easy to use in practice](../tips/tips5.md)
* [Using a role sheet](../tips/tips6.md)
* [Preparing the Project Environment](../tips/tips4.md)
* [Classification and nature of roles](../tips/tips13.md)
