# Designing a Meeting

The content of this article falls under the "Process Domain" in Project Sprint.

Process is a Project Sprint-specific mechanism that revolves around regular meetings and the discussion of the agenda there. This will enable us to achieve the "ideal state" in both the progress and teaming domains.

In this section, we describe the design of the meeting, which is the starting point for the process.

## Meeting Design

In the Project Sprint, we regard a meeting as a place where all team members can share space and time, quickly and efficiently recognize each other, and make decisions that everyone agrees on. To achieve this, design the meeting appropriately and agree on it with the project members.

First, the meeting needs to be a regular meeting. For more information on why this is so, see [Tip 12](../tips/tips12.md).

The frequency of meetings can be weekly, monthly, bi-weekly, etc., depending on the nature of the project and the number of team members. However, considering that the project sprint is a project promotion method, it is unlikely that meetings will be held more than every other month.

The number of participants in each meeting can be as large as necessary to meet the agenda. Necessary and sufficient here means that the agenda can be discussed comprehensively (i.e., no one can talk about it today because no one is present) and that formal decisions can be made based on the discussion (i.e., no one can decide about it today because no one is present). If the number of participants is too large (i.e., the number of participants is not large enough), the meeting will be cancelled. If you have a large group (10 people is a good rule of thumb), make sure you are not bringing in more people than you need. Such a meeting may be for the mere purpose of information sharing, not agenda discussion and decision making.

However, since the agenda for a meeting is not always consistent, it is often best to set up a meeting where all team members can meet in advance when you first design the meeting. This will allow you to share information that may otherwise remain within each team member at the same time, and each team member will be able to naturally come to an understanding of the status of the project and what they think just by participating in the process.

In addition, make sure that the meeting environment is conducive to the aforementioned participants and that information is shared in real time. This is an important point in order to achieve the quick and efficient recognition mentioned above. Specifically, prepare a remote meeting environment where people can participate regardless of their location, and use a document sharing service to share what has been decided on the spot.

**Tips related to this page**

* [Useful ideas for organizing the project timeline (tracks/phases/events)](../tips/tips1.md)
* [Know-how about the meeting environment](../tips/tips7.md)
* [Developing a project environment](../tips/tips4.md)
