# Checking Roles

The content of this article falls under the "teaming domain" in Project Sprint.

The process is a Project Sprint-specific mechanism that revolves around regular meetings and agenda discussions. Through this mechanism, we can share the progress of the project, continuously improve the project process, review milestones toward the project goal, and confirm each other's roles.

In this article, we will discuss role confirmation.

## Checking Roles

As mentioned in the section [on Knowing team members and setting roles](1-2.md), the "ideal state" of teaming does not have a clear shape. This is because it is difficult to determine "If we achieve this level, we have an ideal team! is difficult to determine. Therefore, in Project Sprint, we always aim for "a better team state than the current one".

And "better" here refers to a state where the expectations of team members regarding the roles they should play are aligned. In other words, role confirmation is an effort to check whether team members' expectations of each other's roles are coming together.

The following are some of the times when role verification should be done

1. When the roles that have been defined can be broken down into more detail, and a detailed understanding can be established.
2. When the project progresses to the point where tasks that have not been previously defined are created and the roles need to be clarified.
3. When a role that was previously defined and assigned to one member does not meet the expectations of another member. For example, when a member who has been assigned to a role is actually having another member perform the role, or when another member believes that the expectations of the assigned member are not being met, or conversely, when the assigned person feels that the expectations are higher than they think they are.
4. When a team member feels that the role should be confirmed for some other reason.

Since role confirmation is also an agenda item for the meeting, you will need to submit an agenda in advance.

**Tips related to this page**

* [Setting up roles for easy use in practice](../tips/tips5.md)
* [Using the Rolesheet](../tips/tips6.md)
